QUALITY_DECLARATION.md, before:

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `libyaml_vendor` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep/blob/rep-2004/rep-2004.rst).

# libyaml_vendor Quality Declaration

The package `libyaml_vendor` claims to be in the **Quality Level 3** category.

Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [Package Quality Categories in REP-2004](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-quality-categories) of the ROS2 developer guide.

## Version Policy [1]

### Version Scheme [1.i]

`libyaml_vendor` uses `semver` according to the recommendation for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#versioning).

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` is at or above a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

This is a vendor package for `libyaml` and as such does not declare its own API.

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]/[1.vi]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an API of its own, and will limit its dependency on `libyaml` to API stable releases within a released ROS distribution.

### ABI Stability Policy [1.v]/[1.vi]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an ABI of its own, and will limit its dependency on `libyaml` to ABI stable releases within a released ROS distribution.

## Change Control Process [2]

`libyaml_vendor` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process).

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

All pull requests will be peer-reviewed, check the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process) for additional information.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

All pull requests must pass CI on all [tier 1 platforms](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers).

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)

### Documentation Policy [2.v]

All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

## Documentation [3]

### Feature Documentation [3.i]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have features other than importing the external dependency `libyaml` and therefore does not require feature documentation.

### Public API Documentation [3.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an API and therefore does not require API documentation.

### License [3.iii]

The license for `libyaml_vendor` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the [`package.xml`](package.xml) manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file. The vendored library, `libyaml` license is MIT as stated in its [quality declaration](libyaml_q_declaration.md) document (Section 5.iii).

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has a license statement. [Here](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/) can be found a list with the latest results of the various linters being run on the package.

### Copyright Statements [3.iv]

The copyright holders each provide a statement of copyright in each source code file in `libyaml_vendor`.

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has at least one copyright statement. Latest linter result report can be seen [here](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/copyright/).

## Testing [4]

`libyaml_vendor` is a package providing solely CMake files and therefore does not require API or feature tests and has no coverage or performance requirements (sections [4.i - 4.iv]).

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

`libyaml_vendor` uses and passes all the ROS2 standard linters and static analysis tools as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters-and-static-analysis). Passing implies there are no linter/static errors when testing against CI of supported platforms.

Currently nightly test results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)

## Dependencies [5]

### Direct and Optional Runtime ROS Dependencies [5.i]/[5.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have direct/optional runtime ROS dependencies.

### Direct Runtime non-ROS Dependency [5.iii]

`libyaml_vendor` depends directly on the external dependency `libyaml`, which is qualified as quality level 3 in its [Quality Declaration](./libyaml_q_declaration.md).

## Platform Support [6]

`libyaml_vendor` supports all of the tier 1 platforms as described in [REP-2000](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers).

## Security [7]

### Vulnerability Disclosure Policy [7.i]

This package conforms to the Vulnerability Disclosure Policy in [REP-2006](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2006.html).

# Current status Summary

The chart below compares the requirements in the REP-2004 with the current state of the libyaml package.
|Number|  Requirement| Current state |
|--|--|--|
|1| **Version policy** |---|
|1.i|Version Policy available | ✓ |
|1.ii|Stable version |✓|
|1.iii|Declared public API|✓|
|1.iv|API stability policy|✓|
|1.v|ABI stability policy|✓|
|1.vi_|API/ABI stable within ros distribution|✓|
|2| **Change control process** |---|
|2.i| All changes occur on change request | ✓|
|2.ii| Contributor origin (DCO, CLA, etc) | ✓|
|2.iii| Peer review policy | ✓ |
|2.iv| CI policy for change requests | ✓ |
|2.v| Documentation policy for change requests | ✓ |
|3| **Documentation** | --- |
|3.i| Per feature documentation | ✓ |
|3.ii| Per public API item documentation | ✓ |
|3.iii| Declared License(s) | ✓ |
|3.iv| Copyright in source files| ✓ |
|3.v.a| Quality declaration linked to README | ✓ |
|3.v.b| Centralized declaration available for peer review |✓|
|4| Testing | --- |
|4.i| Feature items tests | ✓ |
|4.ii| Public API tests | ✓ |
|4.iii.a| Using coverage |✓ |
|4.iii.a| Coverage policy | ✓ |
|4.iv.a| Performance tests (if applicable) | ✓ |
|4.iv.b| Performance tests policy| ✓ |
|4.v.a| Code style enforcement (linters)| ✓ |
|4.v.b| Use of static analysis tools | ✓ |
|5| Dependencies | --- |
|5.i| Must not have ROS lower level dependencies | ✓ |
|5.ii| Optional ROS lower level dependencies| ✓ |
|5.iii| Justifies quality use of non-ROS dependencies |✓|
|6| Platform support | --- |
|6.i| Support targets Tier1 ROS platforms| ✓ |
|7| Security | --- |
|7.i| Vulnerability Disclosure Policy | ✓ |

Comparing this table with the [Quality Level Comparison Chart of REP2004](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep/blob/master/rep-2004.rst#quality-level-comparison-chart) lead us to decide that this package qualifies to Quality Level 3.

`libyaml_vendor` is limited by the quality level of the upstream dependency libyaml. In order to reach higher quality levels, the issues limiting `libyaml` will either need to be addressed by `libyaml` itself, or through adequate quality control measures in this package.

Commit message:

Updated quality declaration to 1
Signed-off-by: ahcorde <ahcorde@gmail.com>

QUALITY_DECLARATION.md, after:

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `libyaml_vendor` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep/blob/rep-2004/rep-2004.rst).

# libyaml_vendor Quality Declaration

The package `libyaml_vendor` claims to be in the **Quality Level 1** category.

Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [Package Quality Categories in REP-2004](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-quality-categories) of the ROS2 developer guide.

## Version Policy [1]

### Version Scheme [1.i]

`libyaml_vendor` uses `semver` according to the recommendation for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#versioning).

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` is at or above a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

This is a vendor package for `libyaml` and as such does not declare its own API.

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]/[1.vi]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an API of its own, and will limit its dependency on `libyaml` to API stable releases within a released ROS distribution.

### ABI Stability Policy [1.v]/[1.vi]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an ABI of its own, and will limit its dependency on `libyaml` to ABI stable releases within a released ROS distribution.

## Change Control Process [2]

`libyaml_vendor` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process).

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

All pull requests will be peer-reviewed, check the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process) for additional information.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

All pull requests must pass CI on all [tier 1 platforms](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers).

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)

### Documentation Policy [2.v]

All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

## Documentation [3]

### Feature Documentation [3.i]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have features other than importing the external dependency `libyaml` and therefore does not require feature documentation.

### Public API Documentation [3.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have an API and therefore does not require API documentation.

### License [3.iii]

The license for `libyaml_vendor` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the [`package.xml`](package.xml) manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file. The vendored library, `libyaml` license is MIT as stated in its [quality declaration](libyaml_q_declaration.md) document (Section 5.iii).

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has a license statement. [Here](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/) can be found a list with the latest results of the various linters being run on the package.

### Copyright Statements [3.iv]

The copyright holders each provide a statement of copyright in each source code file in `libyaml_vendor`.

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has at least one copyright statement. Latest linter result report can be seen [here](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/copyright/).

## Testing [4]

`libyaml_vendor` is a package providing solely CMake files and therefore does not require API or feature tests and has no coverage or performance requirements (sections [4.i - 4.iv]).

### Feature Testing [4.i]

As we mentioned in the Quality Declaration of `libyaml`, ROS 2 only uses the API for reading YAML files. This will be the only `libyaml` API tested in the ROS 2 buildfarm.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

As we mentioned in the Quality Declaration of `libyaml`, ROS 2 only uses the API for reading YAML files. This will be the only `libyaml` API tested in the ROS 2 buildfarm.

### Coverage [4.iii]

Lastest code coverage can be found [here](https://ci.ros2.org/job/ci_linux_coverage/lastSuccessfulBuild/cobertura/).

### Performance [4.iv]

The `libyaml` package is benchmarked and the most recent test results can be found [here](http://build.ros2.org/view/Rci/job/Rci__benchmark_ubuntu_focal_amd64/BenchmarkTable/).

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

`libyaml_vendor` uses and passes all the ROS2 standard linters and static analysis tools as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters-and-static-analysis). Passing implies there are no linter/static errors when testing against CI of supported platforms.

Currently nightly test results can be seen here:

* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/libyaml_vendor/)

## Dependencies [5]

### Direct and Optional Runtime ROS Dependencies [5.i]/[5.ii]

`libyaml_vendor` does not have direct/optional runtime ROS dependencies.

### Direct Runtime non-ROS Dependency [5.iii]

`libyaml_vendor` depends directly on the external dependency `libyaml`, which is qualified as quality level 3 in its [Quality Declaration](./libyaml_q_declaration.md).

## Platform Support [6]

`libyaml_vendor` supports all of the tier 1 platforms as described in [REP-2000](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers).

## Security [7]

### Vulnerability Disclosure Policy [7.i]

This package conforms to the Vulnerability Disclosure Policy in [REP-2006](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2006.html).

# Current status Summary

The chart below compares the requirements in the REP-2004 with the current state of the libyaml package.
|Number|  Requirement| Current state |
|--|--|--|
|1| **Version policy** |---|
|1.i|Version Policy available | ✓ |
|1.ii|Stable version |✓|
|1.iii|Declared public API|✓|
|1.iv|API stability policy|✓|
|1.v|ABI stability policy|✓|
|1.vi_|API/ABI stable within ros distribution|✓|
|2| **Change control process** |---|
|2.i| All changes occur on change request | ✓|
|2.ii| Contributor origin (DCO, CLA, etc) | ✓|
|2.iii| Peer review policy | ✓ |
|2.iv| CI policy for change requests | ✓ |
|2.v| Documentation policy for change requests | ✓ |
|3| **Documentation** | --- |
|3.i| Per feature documentation | ✓ |
|3.ii| Per public API item documentation | ✓ |
|3.iii| Declared License(s) | ✓ |
|3.iv| Copyright in source files| ✓ |
|3.v.a| Quality declaration linked to README | ✓ |
|3.v.b| Centralized declaration available for peer review |✓|
|4| Testing | --- |
|4.i| Feature items tests | ✓ |
|4.ii| Public API tests | ✓ |
|4.iii.a| Using coverage |✓ |
|4.iii.a| Coverage policy | ✓ |
|4.iv.a| Performance tests (if applicable) | ✓ |
|4.iv.b| Performance tests policy| ✓ |
|4.v.a| Code style enforcement (linters)| ✓ |
|4.v.b| Use of static analysis tools | ✓ |
|5| Dependencies | --- |
|5.i| Must not have ROS lower level dependencies | ✓ |
|5.ii| Optional ROS lower level dependencies| ✓ |
|5.iii| Justifies quality use of non-ROS dependencies |✓|
|6| Platform support | --- |
|6.i| Support targets Tier1 ROS platforms| ✓ |
|7| Security | --- |
|7.i| Vulnerability Disclosure Policy | ✓ |

Comparing this table with the [Quality Level Comparison Chart of REP2004](https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/rep/blob/master/rep-2004.rst#quality-level-comparison-chart) lead us to decide that this package qualifies to Quality Level 1.
